Test 1, 2, 3. Test 1, 2, 3.
This is the second hour of the interview with Mr.
Benavides in regards to his time in Vietnam. Mr.
Benavides, in the beginning of the war, in the
first few years the American public was in favor of
the war, what do you think changed their views in
regards to the war? Well, I think that
the generation, because of the freedom of
speaking and the freedom that they have, or we
have, is that they were exercising their freedom
because they didn't approve of our involvement
with that Asian country. they saw a way where they,
the young generation, the youngsters, would see a
way where they could keep from going to fight an
unpopular war. I mean, who was the one that
started, or who was against the United States? No
one. It was that country, the South Vietnamese
government, that needed assistance. Probably
the legislators saw a way to where they were
supporting some of the large corporations, and
they saw a need to where the economy would rise,
where they would sell products where they would
benefit, or the large corporations would
benefit. They started sending supplies and they
sent us to guard those supplies. We were, we didn't
know who we were fighting with at the time, in the
very beginning. And so the radicals here in the
United States, they didn't want to go because of
that reason. So what they did, they sort of
demonstrated against our government. This is
some of the rights that all veterans fight for.
Well, there were five of them and eight of them, but
they were doing it. And some of them didn't go, and
some of them went. Some of them went two or three
times. Some of them died. Now, those that went are
telling their children, like I found mine, why we
went. It's helped us for a nation. to keep the
communism from spreading to our country, which
they're close by. Over here, they're south
of Central America, the United States. The people
here just take too much for granted. That's
probably the reason why. They had a way before they
could keep from going, and so they didn't go. Do you
think that you know, Westmoreland started, there
were some statements made that General
Westmoreland reports were coming back that we
were winning the war, but yet we kept sending more
troops and we were escalating. Do you think that
had any... No, I don't think, I don't think that
General Westmoreland, General Westmoreland, I
don't know, you know, I drove for him. I think that
that there was a staff that he had that wasn't
giving him the information that he wanted. And so
he was reported. The general was never that much
out in the field as he was, and every chance he got,
he was out there. But the legislators, that's why
no one justified the divorce. They kept him
So you feel like Westmoreland then was not
informed as well by his staff? Yes. I think from
what I guess I can gather is that his staff was just
not... In a way, his staff was probably thinking
that they were going to help the general become
more famous. And... Whether they knew it or not, I
mean, anyone could say, hey, we killed 15 enemy
over there. Well, when the enemy was probably
villagers. And maybe out of those 15, seven were
enemies. The other were poor, innocent people.
Nevertheless, they were killed. Do you think the
bombing in the north increased the... increase
the North Vietnam's will to want to win that much
more the more we bombed? The more they, it gave them
a, we won as far as the bombing, but it gave them a
psychological
lift, maybe? Well, I think that the bombing
increased because of our POWs and MIAs. Yes, the Ho
Chi Minh Trail was full of these people, the North
Vietnamese that were coming through to fight us
and to fight the South Vietnamese. But
psychologically, those bombs, let me tell you,
that was like riders in the sky. And anyone, I don't
care, how inhuman you are, but I mean, that's got a
psychological factor involved in being
paranoid. So I don't think that that really
stopped those, you know, those enemies that much.
I think that it was just us that didn't see the way to
hurt them or to become more effective than the Cold
War. We had, we could have won that war in two years,
three years if, if, if poor General McMornell was
left alone and, and commanded his troops the way a
leader's supposed to command. I'm not saying that
he didn't command them, that, but a leader is more
effective and, and, and chose more, uh, um, of
leadership to, in a place to where he, he is where he
can most influence me. And, and, and, and Hank, you
pick up the paper and, you know, you, well now, we
saw a team deal that I never did, that Frank Fortune
never did, and that we were way, way back in the
middle. But, uh, you pick up the paper or anything
and you listen to the radio and, and you say that,
what, Manoa was ordered to Okinawa. by some
senator and congressman or what, that was more
than was ordered to Hawaii. And who was left
running the ranch? So, and then when they enfolded
it, I'm one of them that's standing behind it 100%.
You know, LBJ was, he was pretty well, he was pretty
well business oriented anyway. He was out to help
the, you feel like the, a lot of, you know, he sent
over a lot of people that were personal friends
that owned big companies, and I know I did some
readings where they, so many people came in to look
at the war, and a lot of them were your scientists
and your people with your big companies and stuff,
and it said that that could have, you know, that
Westmoreland had to spend time satisfying those
people, you know. Oh, well, you know, he, the
general was one of them that the commander of the
commander-in-chief. I mean, you just don't say no
to the commander-in-chief, but you've got other
people that are in second command that you trust
can do the job just as well as you. You know, you're
the boss, but still, those are just those things
that in our situation occur. And I think that yes,
those big corporations, they were, you know, they
wanted to see one way they could materialize, they
could benefit by producing more machinery to the
farmers there, by
selling more fuel to the government. the way we
were flying, the way we were running our vehicles,
to see in what way they could sell more trucks or
jeeps or what. And look what happened when they
pulled out. I'll get you one of those reports. You
can read it in Times Magazine in 1975, 72, stated
that there was $34 million worth of equipment left
there for the enemy to have. Do you feel like the
South Vietnamese administration and Army really
fought or tried to defend themselves as much as
they could, or did they depend on the American Army
too much? I think they depended on the American
Army too much. Because, I mean, what's the sense of
of me sacrificing my life in my own country, trying
to help with what I haven't got to help with, good
weapons or what, or I'm not intelligent enough.
When I have you that are trained, and I have you to
produce some equipment to help us in the war, I just
sit back and I just lay down. I know they, in some of
the articles I've read, they said that the
administration in Saigon was not really the best
people that they would have wanted there to begin
with, that he was a rich person looking out for
himself. He really didn't care about the peasants
and villagers, you know. You know, in some of those
papers, I don't know which one it was, There are
some of those intelligence reports where there
were some of these so-called rich Americans here
that had money invested in those rubber
plantations.
And I've heard it said, quote me or not quote me, but
I've heard it said that there were some
publications, some sort of an order said that we
would not fire into a rural plantation. So you
never heard of a jet firing into a rural
plantation, even though the Indians went right in
there. What about the defoliation, the ranch
hands? Do you think that they should have done as
much as they did, or was that another case of the big
companies? That's another case of the big
companies. Manzano was one of them that... When I
testified before the federal court in
disagreeing that we, I still, I consider myself a
victim of the agent law because I flew with the red
flag. And I was in an area where it was heavily
sprayed.
I stated to the judge that Why should we accept $180
million? That's like saying that, hey, we're
putting a price tag for the service of your
country. And we don't accept that because there's
no price tag for us that serve our country. There's
nothing to say that, hey, we give you $200 million,
$300 million, and that's it. whether you live or
die, but that's it. We don't do it. We show our
country for the freedom that we're enjoying.
We listened to a speaker in our class that flew with
the ranch hands, and he defended their their view,
he said that it was, all their spraying was
necessary and that they did, that the trees would
come back and all this. And he defended, he was, he
had the opposite view that you did. Was he a doctor?
No, he was a pilot for the ranch family. How did he
know what that defoliation, what chemical that
defoliation was? He said that it was nothing more
than stuff that we sprayed our crops here with.
Sure. I believe him. I believe anything he says.
Because when he went back to his barracks, to his
tent. He took those clothes off that he had. And he
took a good shower. He brushed his teeth. We
didn't. We stayed two or three days with our own
clothes. We didn't take no bath. Sure, I believe
what he said. But why wasn't he down on the ground
with us? And eating the food that we ate. And
sleeping under those trees. I mean, did he go back
again to see if those trees were How many tours did
he have in Vietnam? I don't remember what he said. I
can understand, but yes, I believe him. But I
disagree with what he said. Because he hadn't seen
these youngsters here in Austin or over here in
Houston or in Liberty or something. In Dickerson,
these youngsters, their fingers are just like
toothpicks. Their ears are... or taped against
their head. He hadn't seen no jumpers. And their
father was right there. And, no, he just flew, and
then that's all. He was an officer, and that's all.
But he wasn't on the ground.
I disagree with that. I'm sorry. You served, how
many tours did you serve? Two tours. Two tours. And
your first tour was in? In 1965. It was there in the
heavily, uh, uh, jungle area in Tamkeen, Kwanai.
I was an advisor to the Vietnamese Airborne Ranger
Battalion there.
When we traveled, uh, we walked all through around
the Black Virgin Mountains in those areas there.
And, uh, I used to, used to go to Pang Campound there
in Tam Kee and hitch a flight with them back to Da
Nang or to Quang Ngai. And we'd take Vietnamese
villagers too. We'd put little chickens in there
and everybody carried their own little farm with
them and little cages. And I'd fly back to Tam Kee or
Quang Ngai or wherever they were going to pick me up
at. And when was your second tour? The second tour
was in 68. And that was after the war had really
escalated, isn't it? That was during the Tet
Offense. That was when our beloved President
Johnson asked for, I think, 50,000 more troops.
And that was when the information
was coming out that General McMorrin was asking
for more troops. He thought that we'd have the war
won if we did more. The Agent Orange spray did help
us in a way, but there were some of those troops that
were very disappointed and discouraged in what
the government or the society back home were
doing. They were treated like third-class
citizens. They had no respect, no respect
whatsoever for what we were doing, for what men
quit school to go to serve their country, to
protect the integrity of the President of the
United States, to save this country from
embarrassment. And they burned the American
flag. They actually destroyed their own freedom
And right now, they're enjoying it. They're
enjoying it with one thought in mind. When they
hear about the soldiers, you know, they think in a
way. They think that right there at Rotary Club,
the president of that Rotary Club right there was
one of them that turned their back on them and went
to Canada. And he told them with tears in his eyes
that I shamed him. I said, no, I didn't shame you.
You shamed yourself. I said, now you're back here
in Houston, Texas, enjoying freedom that they've
given my brother's life. I said, you're a coward.
You could have been up there and saved two or three
lives, even though it was a non-popular war. Do you
think that the United States people, every war
we've been in before, the longest war we were ever
in lasted only four years, and that was a civil war.
You think the American people just became so
disillusioned because the war drug on so long, you
know, that our mental state was that, you know, we
go in and we win a war quick, and this one drug on. Do
you think that was part of the disillusionment? I
think that was one of the reasons of the government
or society turning against us. And I think that the
other was the legislators. Washington. But why
should we be blaming the American soldiers? We're
only obeying the orders of the American soldiers.
I mean, I'm proud to be a veteran of the Vietnam era.
Heck, even if I was a Korean veteran, which I served
in Korea, too, right at the ceasefire time. But I
served my country, honestly, in a place where And
the public does not want to understand that
soldiers are taken out, irregardless of whether
that commander-in-chief, the president of the
United States is wrong or right, he's got to obey
those orders. So why should he be condemned
because he was ordered to go and fight in another
country where it's an unpopular war? Why not
prosecute the legislators that assisted the
President, the Commander-in-Chief to send us
over there. Now, why did they approve those
people, the lost son, and there was an accident and
there was nine women that were lost and they were
murdered. Why are they so any guiltless now? And
how can they say that they're proud Americans?
They disobeyed the laws of the present. And if
those legislators can just tell us what they want
done, and not tell us how they want us to do these
things, that war could be won, I understand, in two
years, three years. Incidentally, the Civil War
lasted four years, that's right. The Second World
War lasted four years. But the hardest fighting of
those four years for almost six months, total of
four years. We fought for 10 years, 10 years, day
and night. We had to protect ourselves from our own
shadow because we didn't know what little kid
would come up and throw a hanger at us because he was
doing it for food for his mother and father that
this agent, enemy agent, would tell him, Just
throw that right there and I'll give you a case of
food or I'll give you this. Now, that little kid, he
was an enemy to me. If he threw a hanging egg,
whether he realized it or not, I wasn't going to
stand there and say, hey, little boy, you did
wrong. I mean, why? That's why they call us baby
killers
and all that. And what we didn't do regular or
any... any American would do in a case like that.
Get the hand grenade and throw it back at them
again.
No, it was hard. It was very hard for us. And then to
come back, and they spit on you in a uniform. You,
the defender of this country.
Those people who sit here and watch TV, a big ball
game, while those guys are right now standing
guard. 24 hours a day around this land of ours. And
what do we do? We criticize our own, us, ourselves.
What do we do to these youngsters? These
youngsters won't want to go into the service. They
don't care. But what about us after we're dead? We
won't worry about them. If we ever have another
war, do you think they'll have to use the draft? I
hope so. I've always said, even in these schools
where I talk, You know, it's a matter of pride that,
to be an American, you know, there's a saying, and I
saw this, I saw a sign. Did you read that buddy of
mine that wrote just after, because of a certain
neighbor right here who criticized me? Yeah. He
said, for those that have fought for it, lives have
a special flavor. The protected ones never know.
And I think that every young man and woman, I'm not
saying that they should, I think, that if they,
they should donate two or three years of their time
to the defense of this country. Why wait until you
graduate? Sure you can go to college, but why not,
you know, why not say, hey, I want to be part of a
team? You know, it's great when you And you feel
that Americanism in you. When you hear that
national anthem, you feel the cold shield up and
down your arms. And your heart kind of takes a deep
beat. Because that means you're proud. You're
proud to be an
American. And we only see those through color. I
think these youngsters, instead of getting high
on drugs and booze, they get high on education. do
something for themselves, the community, and
their country. Because they're the future
leaders. You know, another thing that they blame,
they say that a lot of the soldiers, you know,
drugs, a lot of them got started on drugs over in
Vietnam and brought that back here. No, I tell you,
there was more dope, cattle, and there was more
marijuana smoke in one year in these colleges here
than there was in 10 years in Vietnam. See, you only
hear the bad things. You only hear the bad things.
You don't hear the good things. Well, you heard
that tape of the president. They made a meet.
The news media, they're the worst. They were, and
now they're fighting against them, too. Hey, why
should they print this? I mean, even, well, it's
true or what? Does the public really want to hear
that? Public, or do they want to see this? They
don't want to see that. They only want to see what a
good soldier does. They know that we do bad
sometimes.
So, you know, you feel, so a lot of times, a lot of the
bad publicity that the war got was partially due to
the news media because they only, what they showed
on the TV to the people were things like my may lie
and all that, you know, and that's what got all the
publicity, not the Not the rewards, y'all were,
you know, the help that you got. The building
churches, helping the orphanage, helping the
leprosy. All they showed on TV was how many people
were killed and how many, even women and children,
and they really played this all up. Those
reporters, and I know because Peter Jennings was
with them, he's a good, honest, truthful man, and
he was right there with us. I know because we flew
together out of Kwong Nai. He was wounded, I think.
He got sprained on his leg, I think. We were getting
shot up in bed that day. But these reporters, they
wouldn't go. They wouldn't go to a village where we
went and they'd see that little kid throw a hanging
or that old lady throw a hanging or a hanging drop
out. They wouldn't show that kind of thing. They'd
take off like a scared jackrabbit. But they would
see if the soldier shouldn't. Because they knew
that they were V.C. soldiers in North Washington.
That's what the public over here would see. They
wouldn't show up hanging and know they're going to
get covered first.
And in a way, our own men did us wrong. Our own, just
to make themselves look good. And they were
telling themselves.
How come they wouldn't go with the special forces?
They didn't take too much with them.
Do you think that the involvement of moving the war
into Cambodia and Laos also caused
disillusionment with the American people?
Because here we weren't able to win the war in
Vietnam, and now we were moving into two countries
that the people considered weren't involved. in
the war? No, but I don't think that we were moving
the warrants there. I think that we were just given
permission. That's when the North started
finding out that we could win, that we were given
permission to chase enemies there. And the
villages there, of course, they didn't want no
part of it, and especially the bombing. I think
that That the whole mess was just part of the
legislators in our government. They just didn't
want us to win. Because of production of
materials. It's big money. That's right. That war
is going to become very famous in five years from
now. And enough soldiers. are getting together
more, especially the women veterans. You know,
they have bumper stickers. Women are veterans,
too. And you should have seen this over there in
Washington, the Memorial of Education. I mean,
there was women nurses that some of these men found
that they hadn't seen in 15, 20 years. There's one
of them that threw herself over this patient
because they were shelling that That area, it's
just like a mass unit. And he has a very emotional
side, let me tell you. You know, two guys, they
started crying, and that girl, all she could say, I
love you, I love you, shut up. Yeah, it was very
emotional. You see that these youngsters, when
they go see the names on that wall, they thought it
was their father there. And then they read some
good things about the veterans. It's going to
become, they're turning, they're turning, these
youngsters now. Especially, I don't, I didn't
like to hear or read about that young lady that
wouldn't stand up because of the National Anthem
that played up in Massachusetts. Maybe her
parents, that's the way the kids are brought up.
But yet she's enjoying freedom. She's enjoying
going to the piece of HUD and everything. And I know
that she'd rather be here than be in in Russia, in
Czechoslovakia somewhere, to be told when to turn
off the light and when to put it on, when to go out on
the street and when not to.
So, we really don't realize what freedom we have
until, unless we would go somewhere else and see
how people live and how they're treated. That's
exactly right. That is exactly right. I have a book
right there that was written by a priest that
escaped chapter Leviticus. And his greatest
crime, now he wasn't a priest, he was a great
athlete. His greatest crime that they would...